Giving providers context for candidate answers (#157)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/manage-teacher-training-applications/2020-06-04-provider-context.md

---
title: More context for providers
description: Help providers make sense of application form responses by showing them guidance to candidates
date: 2020-06-03
---

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}

## Problem statement

> Providers don't have easy access to the candidate-facing application form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Providers don’t have easy access to the candidate-facing application form.
```

They only see candidate answers, not the way the question is asked or what guidance is given.

This can lead to problems, for example:

> When candidates fail to enter all their relevant qualifications, providers worry this is because the form doesn't ask for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When candidates fail to enter all their relevant qualifications, providers worry this is because the form doesn’t ask for them.
```

> When candidates disclose sensitive information, providers aren't sure if they understand the implications/what they are being asked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When candidates disclose sensitive information, providers aren’t sure if they understand the implications/what they are being asked.
```

> When candidates 'get things wrong' in other ways, providers don't know if it's because the guidance is unclear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When candidates ‘get things wrong’ in other ways, providers don't know if it’s because the guidance is unclear.
```

## Hypothesis

By showing providers the guidance and questions to candidates in context, as they read an application, we can help them understand the candidate response.

## Design proposal

> We added a details component to the provider-facing application form labelled 'View guidance to candidate'. Selecting the component allows providers to see what the candidate sees as they complete the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We added a details component to the provider-facing application form labelled ‘View guidance to candidate’. Selecting the component allows providers to see what the candidate sees as they complete the form.
```

## Technical considerations

We considered having these components automatically update with changes on the candidate side before rejecting this as too developer labour intensive.

> Instead, we'll need to find a way to check in with the candidate-side changes on a regular basis so we can update accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, we’ll need to find a way to check in with the candidate-side changes on a regular basis so we can update accordingly.
```

{% from "screenshots/macro.njk" import appScreenshots with context %}
{{ appScreenshots({

>   items: [{
>     text: "Provider context 1"
>   }
>     , {
>     text: "Provider context 2",
>     img: {
>       src: "provider-context-2.png"
>     }
>   }]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  items: [{
    text: "Provider context 1"
  }, {
    text: "Provider context 2"
  }]
```
